
Mr Gerald M. Hough has been appointed managing director of EVE GROUP. He was
financial director, a responsibility he retains, and succeeds Mr RED Staples
who has retired. Mr GS Foster has become deputy managing director retaining
responsibility for the transmission division. Mr JM Rabbitt, formerly
division manager, joins the board with responsibility for the operation of
the transmission division.
*****
ED & F. MAN SUGAR has appointed Mr Athol Harley as managing director of the
new Hong Kong office, ED & F. Man Pacific Rim, from June 1. He is managing
director of SIS 88, and will become its chairman from June 1. He will be
succeeded as managing director by Mr Howard Delaney who joined the company
last March from CSR, Sydney. Mr Michael Attfield retires from the Man Group
on May 31.
*****
The following have been appointed directors at COUNTY NATWEST INVESTMENT
MANAGEMENT: Mr Robert H. Brown, structured equities group; Mr Andrew F.
Jenner, North America and Far Eastern equities group; and Mr Robert H.
Menzies, global bonds and currency group.
*****
INDEPENDENT INSURANCE has appointed as chairman Mr Michael Bright, who was
managing director. Joining the board are Mr Alan Clarke, assistant general
manager in charge of personnel and training, and Mr Dennis Lomas, chief
accountant.
*****
DEXION GROUP has appointed Mr John Greisch as group managing director in
succession to Mr Stephen Hinchliff, who remains chairman until July. Mr
Greisch was managing director of Dexion's largest subsidiary.
