
RMC GROUP is strengthening its position in the growing German aerated
concrete market.
Its 63.6 per cent owned German subsidiary, Readymix Aktiengesellschaft fur
Beteiligungen (RMA), is paying Pounds 33.7m and merging its Durox aerated
concrete company with Ytong AG, one of Europe's biggest aerated concrete
products groups. This lifts RMA's stake in Ytong from 29.8 per cent to 82
per cent.
In a separate move an RMC associate, Readymix Berlin, has paid about DM25m
(Pounds 8.4m) for Laussig, which operates a factory in Leipzig in eastern
Germany producing about 300,000 cubic metres of aerated concrete annually.
Ytong, which will help manage the Leipzig plant, produced 1.85m cubic metres
of concrete last year from seven plants in Germany and one each in Austria,
France and Portugal.
Durox operates three factories in Holland and one in Belgium producing about
700,000 cubic metres of aerated concrete, which is used to produce
lightweight blocks used widely in housebuilding.
Germany is one of the few European housing markets expected to grow during
the next 12 months with residential development forecast to rise by about 6
per cent this year.
An important factor behind the increased demand has been the flow of
immigrants into the western part of the country from the former East
Germany.
In 1990 Ytong made pre-tax profits of DM31.3m (Pounds 10.5m) on sales of
DM450m (Pounds 152m). Mr Derek Jenkins, finance director of RMC, said the
purchase of an increased stake in Ytong would make a positive contribution
to the group's earnings this year.
