
AFTER one of the most turbulent week's on the foreign exchange markets this
year, dealers are focused on one issue: whether the Bundesbank will tighten
monetary policy at its council meeting on Thursday, writes James Blitz.
There are strong indications of a feverish behind-the scenes debate among
Bundesbank members over the issue, and every chance that a tightening will
take place. Those council members in favour will argue that M3 money supply
now shows annual growth of around 9 per cent against an annual target range
of 3.5 to 5.5 per cent.
What will the Bundesbank do? Mr Gerard Lyons, chief economist at DKB
International says the Germans are unlikely to alter the M3 target for fear
of losing credibility. He believes that there is some chance that the
Bundesbank will impose limits on the amounts of funds that could be borrowed
by banks at the Lombard rate. 'But there is a danger that such action could
result in higher money market rates and eventually force the Lombard rate to
rise.'
But Mr Mark Cliffe, chief economist at the Nomura research institute in
London, says that a rate rise could exacerbate the growing money supply. 'If
events follow a similar course to the last two rate hikes and long yields
fall,' he says, 'the effect on long term credit demand could actually be
expansionary. Moreover, the effect on long term capital formation will be
contractionary, with short term investments becoming even more attractive.'
Of course, that argument was made in reverse to explain why the Federal
Reserve would not dare to cut its discount rate. Ten days ago it did. The
market will have to sit this one out until Thursday afternoon.
