
An attempt by building materials companies to force through higher prices is
a sure sign of spring. Having been disappointed so often in the past,
yesterday's aggressive noises from Blue Circle and RMC might seem like hot
air. Yet both have a fair chance of making higher prices stick this time.
Capacity has been taken out of both cement and concrete - witness Blue
Circle's Pounds 62m restructuring charge. RMC barely broke even in UK
concrete last year, so it can hardly stand by and watch prices erode
further. RMC is also Blue Circle's biggest customer; that both companies are
talking tough suggests a degree of common purpose.
That does not guarantee an immediate profits recovery for either company.
Volumes are likely to be lower this year. Even if the housing market comes
back from the dead, commercial building remains in the doldrums. By reducing
capacity and fixed costs, Blue Circle may be better geared to price
increases, but the full benefits of restructuring will not flow through
until 1994. RMC may have to live with undisciplined competition in the
fragmented concrete market.
With a stronger balance sheet, a covered dividend and profitable German
operations, though, RMC is in better shape to live with another
disappointment. Housing the influx of immigrants into Germany is big
business for concrete producers even while the wider economy is sliding. In
contrast Blue Circle's acquisition of French boiler-maker Celsius looks
badly-timed. Yesterday's uncovered pay-out and asset revaluation eat into a
balance sheet damaged by goodwill write-offs. A 6 per cent yield on the
shares should provide some support, but Blue Circle needs a smart recovery
in UK profits to justify the dividend.
