
Having played fast and loose with previous predictions when tapping
shareholders for more money, it is hard to know how seriously to take BPB's
present sunny prognosis for the plasterboard industry. A 52 per cent rise in
pre-tax profits certainly lends weight to the benign outlook. The 33 per
cent dividend cut, though, provides a nasty reminder of how faulty the
company's judgment has proved in the past.
Peace does appear to have broken out between the big three plasterboard
manufacturers after they came close to bleeding each other dry. Prices have
climbed 29 per cent in the past 18 months. BPB's profits have benefited
mightily from the trend, especially when combined with its cost reduction
programme. These factors should push BPB's profits sharply higher this year
too as UK demand twitches upwards. A forward multiple of about 20 certainly
anticipates as much.
Yet BPB's recovery is built on fragile foundations. The cut dividend is
still scarcely covered and any growth will be painfully slow. Fortunately,
investors may now be more concerned with earnings prospects than yield.
Moreover, plasterboard overcapacity in the UK may undermine price stability
as manufacturers defend market share. The greatest uncertainty, though, is
about how far the French market will fall. Both Knauf and Lafarge appear far
gloomier than BPB on this score. If they prove right, things may grow
particularly messy for BPB. France is its biggest market.
