
The marketing strategies being pursued by branded goods companies may not be
a mortal blow for hard-pressed advertising agencies. Mr Charles Scott, chief
executive of Saatchi & Saatchi, acknowledged last week that discounting of
branded goods would suck money out of advertising budgets in the short term.
But pioneers of everyday low pricing such as Procter & Gamble have pledged
that advertising support for their brands will not be reduced overall. The
remaining price differential of branded goods over generic products would
otherwise be impossible to defend.
Yet the outlook for advertising agencies is far from cloudless. While
advertising expenditure should grow as the industrial economies turn, the
stratospheric rate of growth seen in the 1980s - with advertising growing
steadily as a proportion of gross domestic product - is improbable.
The wild card is the question of brand valuations in company accounts. A
recent study commissioned by the UK Accounting Standards Board supported
balance sheet valuation of acquired brands, subject to certain financial
tests. If that approach is carried through into an accounting standard,
consumer goods companies will have a financial incentive to maintain
advertising investment in their brands. Agencies would doubtless applaud
such an approach. Still, having written off Pounds 600m of goodwill to
reflect a permanent diminution in value of acquired agency brands, Saatchi &
Saatchi will also appreciate the pitfalls.
