
NOT VERY many years ago Easter regularly heralded one of the oddest music
events of London's musical calendar, the Wembley Country Music Festival. For
a weekend the North Circular would sprout signs directing the faithful to
the Wembley Arena where a gaggle of country stars would parade in front of
an audience dressed (in spirit if not actuality) in Marlboro man outfits.
Such an image of country music is offered by Slim Whitman, who regularly
toured the UK in the 1980s performing watered-down versions of his 1950s
hits. All these and more are available on the double CD 50 Original Tracks
(EMI 0777 7 8907824). Just how tangential to modern sense of country music
they are can be judged from the titles: 'Rose Marie', 'Tumbling Tumbleweeds'
and 'I'll Take You Home Kathleen'. In short, romantic balladeering.
Wembley has been discontinued for a few years. When it returns this
September, it will do so to a radically different world. Two things have
happened to country music: it has become hugely successful in America (where
it currently represents 16 per cent of the US market by retail value) and it
has rediscovered its past.
This history is the subject of three welcome histories of the genre put out
by EMI, Capitol Classics, by Sony, Columbia Country Classics and by Kenwest,
The History of Country Music. All are five-strong sets organised by decades.
Accordingly each of the Capitol set (which confusingly is numbered CDP
96841, 96834,97541, 9752, 97555) the Sony set (468119-4681123) and the
Kenwest double CDs (KNEWCD715-723) cover the 1940s to the 1980s. History
being what it is the latest sets in each series are the most dubious.
