
Sir, Your editorial, 'Lesson for Israel' (July 29), calls for an
explanation. Lebanon should be responsible for curbing the Hizbollah. Alas,
Lebanon, being a 'subsidiary' of Syria, allows it a free hand. Your leader
speculates that Israel's activities will compromise the peace talks. Syria,
the most important negotiator with Israel, is actively supporting the
Hizbollah. To talk peace on the one hand and to terrorise the north of
Israel on the other hand is simply unacceptable. And if Lebanon cannot curb
the terrorists and Syria does not want to, Israel is left with no
alternative but to 'do the job' itself.
Comparing the situation to Bosnia is an unjust statement. Moslems in Bosnia
had no choice but to flee, just because they were Moslem. (And yes, they
fled, inter alia, to Israel, not to England.) The Lebanese have a choice.
The Hizbollah, like any other entity, cannot survive within a hostile
population. Terrorism against Israel flourishes because Hizbollah is
supported by the Shia inhabitants of south Lebanon. Let the government of
Lebanon clean its back yard. Let the inhabitants of south Lebanon express
their hostility to the terrorist group. Israel will welcome these
inhabitants back.
No Israeli is pleased with these mass evacuations. It is unfortunately the
lesser of two evils, which alternative can be solved by Syria and Lebanon.
Zalli Jaffe,
Jaffe, Fund Shefi & co,
31 Ramban Street,
Jerusalem 91-073, Israel
