
BRITISH STEEL said yesterday that it was closing Cleveland Iron, the UK's
only supplier of foundry iron and ferromanganese, with the loss of 200 jobs.
The Teesside plant, centred on two blast furnaces commissioned in 1911 and
1939, serves customers in the UK, continental Europe and the US as well as
supplying British Steel's own ferromanganese needs.
British Steel will buy ferromanganese, used in steelmaking, on the open
market.
It said the closure, to take effect by the end of March, was due to reduced
customer requirements as a result of global overcapacity, which had led to
falling prices. It declined to give details of the plant's financial
performance.
Mr Ted Hardaker, senior Teesside divisional organiser of the Iron and Steel
Trades Confederation, said he was appalled. 'Until we get some kind of
interventionist philosophy adopted by this government, we're just going to
sit and watch our manufacturing base disappear,' he said.
The ISTC and craft unions are holding a meeting of the plant's workforce on
Friday, but opposition to closure is unlikely. If other workers in British
Steel's 4,400 Teesside workforce volunteer for redundancy, some of the 200
may replace them, but Mr Hardaker predicted compulsory redundancies.
Cleveland Iron is part of the oldest site in British Steel's complex on
Teesside. In Victorian times the area was the world's leading producer of
iron.
The plant's customers include Ford, which uses its foundry iron for castings
and last year gave Cleveland Iron a suppliers' quality award. Ford said it
was keen to continue sourcing raw materials in the UK where possible. 'If
the implication of this decision is that we'll have to import material,
we'll be disappointed.'
