
Peugeot is to sign a joint venture agreement today with Premier Automobile
Ltd (PAL) to establish a manufacturing operation in India for the French
motor group.
The project has ambitious objectives to produce 60,000 vehicles a year by
1998 and to capture 10 per cent of the Indian car market by 2000. The
investment over the next four years is expected to total FFr1.2bn (Dollars
220m).
Peugeot said the project, one of a series of investment plans in India by
international vehicle groups, reflected the strong growth potential of the
market. He said the Indian car market was growing by about 15 per cent a
year and should reach about 270,000 cars in 1994. By 2000 sales were
expected to reach 500,000 cars.
Under the agreement, the joint venture, dubbed PAL Peugeot will be
controlled by the French and Indian partners. They will both hold about 28
per cent of the shares, with the balance held by institutional investors and
the public through a share issue on the Bombay stock exchange.
The joint venture will produce the five door version of the Peugeot 309, a
medium-sized vehicle. The cars will be manufactured at PAL's Kalyan plant,
50km north of Bombay. The first 309s are expected to leave the production
line next year, with volumes steadily increasing over the following three
years. The joint venture agreement includes the re-tooling and modernisation
of the Kalyan plant, which currently produces the NE118, a small car which
uses Nissan engines. In the first year of the project, Peugeot estimates
that between 5,000 and 6,000 309s will be built, with a local content ratio
of about 15 per cent. The proportion will rise to about 80 per cent by 1998.
The 309 will be a rival to the small cars produced by Maruti, the dominant
player in the Indian car market, which has partnerships with Japanese
manufacturers. Competition is expected to intensify as other international
groups, including Ford and General Motors, start production in India.
