
Equity markets barely stirred at the latest surge in coffee prices. With
around 25 per cent of its profits coming from coffee, Nestle has most at
stake, although Philip Morris - through Kraft General Foods - and Procter &
Gamble also have significant exposures to the brown stuff. Judging by the
steady performance of Nestle shares, investors are taking the view that
manufacturers will have little trouble defending margins despite a 40 per
cent rise in commodity prices.
Past experience certainly gives grounds for confidence. When coffee prices
soared in the mid-1970s and mid-1980s consumers were mostly prepared to
swallow the increase. But in the current price-conscious climate, though,
there is no guarantee that history will repeat itself. Both Philip Morris
and P&G have adopted aggressive pricing strategies in other consumer
markets. Even if consumers are unwilling to pay more this time around,
though, it is difficult to see Nestle being squeezed.
Its strength in instant coffee - where the commodity accounts for only a
small proportion of the retail price - is a competitive advantage. Ground
coffee manufacturers will face greater pressure to raise retail prices.
Although Nestle is coy about the extent of its hedging, it is generally
reckoned to buy more coffee forward than the industry average. And on the
reasonable assumption that as market leader Nestle enjoys higher margins
than most of its competitors, particularly own-label manufacturers, higher
commodity prices could be an opportunity to consolidate its lead.
