
Germany's money supply grew more slowly than expected in November, bringing
it to the top of the Bundesbank's target range for this year. M3 grew at a
seasonally adjusted and annualised rate of 6 per cent in the month after 6.8
per cent in October and 7.8 per cent in September. The target range for 1994
is between 4 per cent and 6 per cent, a level the central bank is expected
to leave unchanged, or alter only slightly, when it sets the 1995 target
tomorrow. Earlier this year, M3 was growing at rates of between 10 and 20
per cent, before the bank cut interest rates to encourage investors to move
funds to longer term investments outside the M3 definition.
Economists had expected the November figure to be just below 6.5 per cent.
However, the recent introduction of money market funds (not in M3) for
German investors distorted the picture, noted UBS in Frankfurt. 'Without
them, M3 would still be well above target,' it said. The Bundesbank also
said M3 growth had eased because of high monetary capital formation, with
three times as much money moving to longer term investments as in November,
1993.
French consumer purchases of manufactured goods rose by 1.7 per cent in
November after a 2.5 per cent drop in October, the economy ministry said
yesterday, claiming that this showed recovery was well established. Durable
goods buying was particularly strong, with a 4.9 per cent increase last
month. At the same time, Insee, the official statistics agency, produced
revised figures underlining the pause in the economy earlier in the autumn.
It now estimates that manufacturing output fell in October by 0.5 per cent,
after having already fallen by 0.4 per cent in September.
