
The Bundesbank yesterday decided to keep its interest rate policy on hold
for at least another two weeks despite a further encouraging dip in the
annualised rate of growth in M3 money supply. The provisional 9.9 per cent
July rate, although still above the bank's 4-6 per cent target, was a bigger
improvement than expected over June's 11.4 per cent. Release of the figures
during yesterday's council meeting prompted speculation that a discount rate
cut might, after all, be in the wind. In the event, the council's only
action was to leave the rate for securities repurchase agreements fixed at
4.85 per cent. The M3 data yielded hardening indicators of two important
trends. The shift of funds out of short-term into long-term instruments
(so-called monetary capital formation) appeared to accelerate in accordance
with the bank's wishes. Some DM16bn fell out of the M3 calculation compared
with DM7.6bn in July last year. If this trend, encouraged by the May cut in
the discount rate to 4.5 per cent, continues, M3 may approach the upper end
of the target range by the year's end. At the same time, private sector
borrowing gained pace, pushing the annualised growth rate over the past six
months to 9.2 per cent, compared with 8.8 per cent in June.
See Editorial Comment
Switzerland reported a record current account surplus for 1993 of SFr27bn
(Pounds 13.4bn). It was also, at 8 per cent, by far the highest among
industrialised countries in relation to gross domestic product. Swiss
surpluses have averaged SFr14.6bn, just under 5 per cent of GDP, over the
past decade.
Unemployment in Sweden rose to 8.8 per cent (395,000 people) in July from
8.5 per cent in June, the central statistics bureau said. The figure was 9.5
per cent in July last year.
